README.md, before:

# MuseGAN

[MuseGAN](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/) is a project on music
generation. In a nutshell, we aim to generate polyphonic music of multiple
tracks (instruments). The proposed models are able to generate music either from
scratch, or by accompanying a track given a priori by the user.

We train the model with training data collected from
[Lakh Pianoroll Dataset](https://salu133445.github.io/lakh-pianoroll-dataset/)
to generate pop song phrases consisting of bass, drums, guitar, piano and
strings tracks.

Sample results are available
[here](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/results).

## Prerequisites

> __Below we assume the working directory is the repository root.__

### Install dependencies

- Using pipenv (recommended)

  > Make sure `pipenv` is installed. (If not, simply run `pip install pipenv`.)

  ```sh
  # Install the dependencies
  pipenv install
  # Activate the virtual environment
  pipenv shell
  ```

- Using pip

  ```sh
  # Install the dependencies
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```

### Prepare training data

> The training data is collected from
[Lakh Pianoroll Dataset](https://salu133445.github.io/lakh-pianoroll-dataset/)
(LPD), a new multitrack pianoroll dataset.

```sh
# Download the training data
./scripts/download_data.sh
# Store the training data to shared memory
./scripts/process_data.sh
```

You can also download the training data manually
([train_x_lpd_5_phr.npz](https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=14rrC5bSQkB9VYWrvt2IhsCjOKYrguk3S)).

## Scripts

We provide several shell scripts for easy managing the experiments. (See
[here](scripts/README.md) for a detailed documentation.)

> __Below we assume the working directory is the repository root.__

### Train a new model

1. Run the following command to set up a new experiment with default settings.

   ```sh
   # Set up a new experiment
   ./scripts/setup_exp.sh "./exp/my_experiment/" "Some notes on my experiment"
   ```

2. Modify the configuration and model parameter files for experimental settings.

3. You can either train the model:

     ```sh
     # Train the model
     ./scripts/run_train.sh "./exp/my_experiment/" "0"
     ```
   or run the experiment (training + inference + interpolation):

     ```sh
     # Run the experiment
     ./scripts/run_exp.sh "./exp/my_experiment/" "0"
     ```

### Use pretrained models

1. Download pretrained models

   ```sh
   # Download the pretrained models
   ./scripts/download_models.sh
   ```

   You can also download the pretrained models manually
   ([pretrained_models.tar.gz](https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=19RYAbj_utCDMpU7PurkjsH4e_Vy8H-Uy)).

2. You can either perform inference from a trained model:

   ```sh
   # Run inference from a pretrained model
   ./scripts/run_inference.sh "./exp/default/" "0"
   ```

   or perform interpolation from a trained model:

   ```sh
   # Run interpolation from a pretrained model
   ./scripts/run_interpolation.sh "./exp/default/" "0"
   ```

## Outputs

By default, samples will be generated alongside the training. You can disable
this behavior by setting `save_samples_steps` to zero in the configuration file
(`config.yaml`). The generated will be stored in the following three formats by
default.

- `.npy`: raw numpy arrays
- `.png`: image files
- `.npz`: multitrack pianoroll files that can be loaded by the
  _[Pypianoroll](https://salu133445.github.io/pypianoroll/index.html)_
  package

You can disable saving in a specific format by setting `save_array_samples`,
`save_image_samples` and `save_pianoroll_samples` to `False`  in the
configuration file.

The generated pianorolls are stored in .npz format to save space and processing
time. You can use the following code to write them into MIDI files.

```python
from pypianoroll import Multitrack

m = Multitrack('./test.npz')
m.write('./test.mid')
```

## Sample Results

Some sample results can be found in `./exp/` directory. More samples can be
downloaded from the following links.

- [`sample_results.tar.gz`](https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=1BsNtc8_mpLK5l2F5jncIkHbTcJqtZu2w) (54.7 MB):
  sample inference and interpolation results
- [`training_samples.tar.gz`](https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=1pZk0YCElcHHSBfhbV8j_zaRr1zhEQUzN) (18.7 MB):
  sample generated results at different steps

## Papers

__Convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks with Binary Neurons for
Polyphonic Music Generation__<br>
Hao-Wen Dong and Yi-Hsuan Yang<br>
in _Proceedings of the 19th International Society for Music Information
Retrieval Conference_ (ISMIR), 2018.<br>
[[website](https://salu133445.github.io/bmusegan)]
[[arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.09399)]
[[paper](https://salu133445.github.io/bmusegan/pdf/bmusegan-ismir2018-paper.pdf)]
[[slides(long)](https://salu133445.github.io/bmusegan/pdf/bmusegan-tmac2018-slides.pdf)]
[[slides(short)](https://salu133445.github.io/bmusegan/pdf/bmusegan-ismir2018-slides.pdf)]
[[poster](https://salu133445.github.io/bmusegan/pdf/bmusegan-ismir2018-poster.pdf)]
[[code](https://github.com/salu133445/bmusegan)]

__MuseGAN: Multi-track Sequential Generative Adversarial Networks for Symbolic
Music Generation and Accompaniment__<br>
Hao-Wen Dong,\* Wen-Yi Hsiao,\* Li-Chia Yang and Yi-Hsuan Yang,
(\*equal contribution)<br>
in _Proceedings of the 32nd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence_
(AAAI), 2018.<br>
[[website](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan)]
[[arxiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06298)]
[[paper](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/pdf/musegan-aaai2018-paper.pdf)]
[[slides](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/pdf/musegan-aaai2018-slides.pdf)]
[[code](https://github.com/salu133445/musegan)]

__MuseGAN: Demonstration of a Convolutional GAN Based Model for Generating
Multi-track Piano-rolls__<br>
Hao-Wen Dong,\* Wen-Yi Hsiao,\* Li-Chia Yang and Yi-Hsuan Yang
(\*equal contribution)<br>
in _Late-Breaking Demos of the 18th International Society for Music Information
Retrieval Conference_ (ISMIR), 2017. (two-page extended abstract)<br>
[[paper](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/pdf/musegan-ismir2017-lbd-paper.pdf)]
[[poster](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/pdf/musegan-ismir2017-lbd-poster.pdf)]

Commit message:

docs(README.md): add link to instructions to install CUDA drivers

README.md, after:

# MuseGAN

[MuseGAN](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/) is a project on music
generation. In a nutshell, we aim to generate polyphonic music of multiple
tracks (instruments). The proposed models are able to generate music either from
scratch, or by accompanying a track given a priori by the user.

We train the model with training data collected from
[Lakh Pianoroll Dataset](https://salu133445.github.io/lakh-pianoroll-dataset/)
to generate pop song phrases consisting of bass, drums, guitar, piano and
strings tracks.

Sample results are available
[here](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/results).

## Prerequisites

> __Below we assume the working directory is the repository root.__

### Install CUDA drivers

To utilize `tensorflow-gpu`, you must first follow
[NVIDIA's instructions](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads) to install
the correct CUDA drivers on your machine.

### Install dependencies

- Using pipenv (recommended)

  > Make sure `pipenv` is installed. (If not, simply run `pip install pipenv`.)

  ```sh
  # Install the dependencies
  pipenv install
  # Activate the virtual environment
  pipenv shell
  ```

- Using pip

  ```sh
  # Install the dependencies
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```

### Prepare training data

> The training data is collected from
[Lakh Pianoroll Dataset](https://salu133445.github.io/lakh-pianoroll-dataset/)
(LPD), a new multitrack pianoroll dataset.

```sh
# Download the training data
./scripts/download_data.sh
# Store the training data to shared memory
./scripts/process_data.sh
```

You can also download the training data manually
([train_x_lpd_5_phr.npz](https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=14rrC5bSQkB9VYWrvt2IhsCjOKYrguk3S)).

## Scripts

We provide several shell scripts for easy managing the experiments. (See
[here](scripts/README.md) for a detailed documentation.)

> __Below we assume the working directory is the repository root.__

### Train a new model

1. Run the following command to set up a new experiment with default settings.

   ```sh
   # Set up a new experiment
   ./scripts/setup_exp.sh "./exp/my_experiment/" "Some notes on my experiment"
   ```

2. Modify the configuration and model parameter files for experimental settings.

3. You can either train the model:

     ```sh
     # Train the model
     ./scripts/run_train.sh "./exp/my_experiment/" "0"
     ```
   or run the experiment (training + inference + interpolation):

     ```sh
     # Run the experiment
     ./scripts/run_exp.sh "./exp/my_experiment/" "0"
     ```

### Use pretrained models

1. Download pretrained models

   ```sh
   # Download the pretrained models
   ./scripts/download_models.sh
   ```

   You can also download the pretrained models manually
   ([pretrained_models.tar.gz](https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=19RYAbj_utCDMpU7PurkjsH4e_Vy8H-Uy)).

2. You can either perform inference from a trained model:

   ```sh
   # Run inference from a pretrained model
   ./scripts/run_inference.sh "./exp/default/" "0"
   ```

   or perform interpolation from a trained model:

   ```sh
   # Run interpolation from a pretrained model
   ./scripts/run_interpolation.sh "./exp/default/" "0"
   ```

## Outputs

By default, samples will be generated alongside the training. You can disable
this behavior by setting `save_samples_steps` to zero in the configuration file
(`config.yaml`). The generated will be stored in the following three formats by
default.

- `.npy`: raw numpy arrays
- `.png`: image files
- `.npz`: multitrack pianoroll files that can be loaded by the
  _[Pypianoroll](https://salu133445.github.io/pypianoroll/index.html)_
  package

You can disable saving in a specific format by setting `save_array_samples`,
`save_image_samples` and `save_pianoroll_samples` to `False`  in the
configuration file.

The generated pianorolls are stored in .npz format to save space and processing
time. You can use the following code to write them into MIDI files.

```python
from pypianoroll import Multitrack

m = Multitrack('./test.npz')
m.write('./test.mid')
```

## Sample Results

Some sample results can be found in `./exp/` directory. More samples can be
downloaded from the following links.

- [`sample_results.tar.gz`](https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=1BsNtc8_mpLK5l2F5jncIkHbTcJqtZu2w) (54.7 MB):
  sample inference and interpolation results
- [`training_samples.tar.gz`](https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=1pZk0YCElcHHSBfhbV8j_zaRr1zhEQUzN) (18.7 MB):
  sample generated results at different steps

## Papers

__Convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks with Binary Neurons for
Polyphonic Music Generation__<br>
Hao-Wen Dong and Yi-Hsuan Yang<br>
in _Proceedings of the 19th International Society for Music Information
Retrieval Conference_ (ISMIR), 2018.<br>
[[website](https://salu133445.github.io/bmusegan)]
[[arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.09399)]
[[paper](https://salu133445.github.io/bmusegan/pdf/bmusegan-ismir2018-paper.pdf)]
[[slides(long)](https://salu133445.github.io/bmusegan/pdf/bmusegan-tmac2018-slides.pdf)]
[[slides(short)](https://salu133445.github.io/bmusegan/pdf/bmusegan-ismir2018-slides.pdf)]
[[poster](https://salu133445.github.io/bmusegan/pdf/bmusegan-ismir2018-poster.pdf)]
[[code](https://github.com/salu133445/bmusegan)]

__MuseGAN: Multi-track Sequential Generative Adversarial Networks for Symbolic
Music Generation and Accompaniment__<br>
Hao-Wen Dong,\* Wen-Yi Hsiao,\* Li-Chia Yang and Yi-Hsuan Yang,
(\*equal contribution)<br>
in _Proceedings of the 32nd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence_
(AAAI), 2018.<br>
[[website](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan)]
[[arxiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06298)]
[[paper](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/pdf/musegan-aaai2018-paper.pdf)]
[[slides](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/pdf/musegan-aaai2018-slides.pdf)]
[[code](https://github.com/salu133445/musegan)]

__MuseGAN: Demonstration of a Convolutional GAN Based Model for Generating
Multi-track Piano-rolls__<br>
Hao-Wen Dong,\* Wen-Yi Hsiao,\* Li-Chia Yang and Yi-Hsuan Yang
(\*equal contribution)<br>
in _Late-Breaking Demos of the 18th International Society for Music Information
Retrieval Conference_ (ISMIR), 2017. (two-page extended abstract)<br>
[[paper](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/pdf/musegan-ismir2017-lbd-paper.pdf)]
[[poster](https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/pdf/musegan-ismir2017-lbd-poster.pdf)]
